Express each of these system specifications using predicates, quantifiers, and logical connectives, if necessary.

1. At least one console must be accessible during every fault condition.
2. The e-mail address of every user can be retrieved whenever the archive contains at least one message sent by every user on the system.
3. For every security breach there is a least one mechanism that can detect that breach if and only if there is a process that has not been compromised.
4. There are at least two paths connecting every two distinct endpoints on the netwoork.
5. No one knows the passwrod of every user on the system except for the system administrator, who knows all passwords.

Solutin

a. $$\exist x \forall y A(x, y)$$

+ Domain: x - All consoles, y - All fault conditions.
+ A(x, y): x can be accessible during y.

b. $$(\forall x \exist y S(x, y)) \rightarrow p$$

+ Domain: x - All users on the system, y - All messages.
+ S(x, y): x sent y.
+ p: The e-mail address of every user can be retrieved.

c. $$\forall x \exist y (D(x, y) \leftrightarrow \exist z \neg P(z))$$

+ Domain: x - All security branchs, y - All mechanisms, z - All processes.
+ D(x, y): y detect x.
+ P(z): z has been compromised.

d. $$\forall y_1 \forall y_2 \exist x_1 \exist x_2 (C(x_1, y_1, y_2) \wedge C(x_2, y_1, y_2))$$

+ Domain: x - All paths, y - All endpoints on the network.
+ $$C(x, y_1, y_2)$$: x connecting $$y_1$$ and $$y_2$$.

e. $$\neg \exist x \neg \forall y (x \ne administrator \rightarrow K(x, y))$$

+ Domain: x - All users on the system, y - All passwords.
+ K(x, y): x know password y.

<style type="text/css">
    ol { list-style-type: lower-alpha; }
</style>