Exercises 28-25 relate to inhabitants of an island on which there are three kinds of people: knights who always tell the truth, knaves who always lie, and spies (called normals by Smullyan [Sm78]) who can either lie or tell the truth. You encounter three people, A, B, and C. you know one of these people is a knight, one is a knave, and one is a spy. Each of the three people knows the type of person each of other two is. For each of these situations, if possible, determine whether there is a unique solution and determine who the knave, knight, and spy are. When there is no unique solution, list all possible solutions or state that there are no solutions.

+ $$p_i$$: i is knight.
+ $$q_i$$: i is knave.
+ $$r_i$$: i is spy.

**28.** A says "C is the knave," B says "A is the knight," and C says "I am the spy."

Soultion

1. A is knight, B is spy, C is knave.

Assign $$p_a = T => q_c = T => r_b = T$$

Assign $$p_b = T => p_a = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_c = T => r_c = T$$ conflict with C says.

||p|q|r|
|A|$$p_a(T)$$|$$q_a$$|$$r_a$$|
|B|$$p_b$$|$$q_b$$|$$r_b(T)$$|
|C|$$p_c$$|$$q_c(T)$$|$$r_c$$|

**29.** A says "I am the knight," B says "I am the knave," and C says "B is the knight"

Solution

1. A is knight, B is spy, C is knave.

Assign $$p_a = T, q_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_a = T, q_c = T => r_b = T$$.

Assign $$p_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_c = T$$ conflict with C says.

**30.** A says "I am the knave," B says "I am the knave," and C says "I am the knave."

Solution

Not possible.

Assign $$p_a = T$$ conflict with A says.

Assign $$p_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_c = T$$ conflict with C says.

**31.** A says "I am the knight," B says "A is telling the truth," and C says "I am the spy."

Solution

1. A is knight, B is spy, C is knave.

Assign $$p_a = T => r_b = T = q_c = T$$

Assign $$p_b = T$$ conflict with B & A says.

Assign $$p_c = T$$ conflict with C says.

**32.** A says "I am the knight," B says "A is not the knave," and C says "B is not the knave."

Solution

1. A is knave, B is spy, C is knight.

Assign $$p_a = T => q_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_b = T => r_a = T$$ conflict with C says.

Assign $$p_c = T => r_b = T => q_a = T$$

**33.** A says "I am the knight," B says "I am the knight," and C says "I am the knight."

Solution

1. A is knight, B is knave, C is spy.
2. A is knight, B is spy, C is knave.
3. A is knave, B is knight, C is spy.
4. A is spy, B is knight, C is knave.
5. A is knave, B is spy, C is knight.
6. A is spy, B is knave, C is knight.

Assign $$p_a = T, q_b = T, r_c = T$$

**34.** A says "I am not the spy," B says "I am not the spy," and C says "A is the spy."

Solution

1. A is knight, B is spy, C is knave.
2. A is spy, B is knight, C is knave.

Assign $$p_a = T, q_c = T, r_b = T$$ get solution 1.

Assign $$p_a = T, r_c = T => q_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

Assign $$p_b = T, q_c = T, r_a = T$$ get solution 2.

Assign $$p_b = T, r_c = T => q_a = T$$ conflict with A says.

Assign $$p_c = T => r_a = T => q_b = T$$ conflict with B says.

**35.** A says "I am not the spy," B says "I am not the spy," and C says "I am not the spy."

Solution

Not possible.

Knave can not say "I am not the spy". it's true.