Solve this famous logic puzzle, attributed to albert Einstein, and known as the **zebra puzzle**. Five men with different nationalities and with different jobs libe in consecutive houses on a street. These houses are painted different colors. The men have different pets and have different favorite drinks, Determine who owns a zebra and whose favorite drink is mineral water (which is one of the favorite drinks) given these clues: The Englishman lives in the red house. The Spaniard owns a dog. The japanese man is a painter. The Italian drinks tea. The Norwegian lives in the first house on the left. The green house is immediately to the right of the white one. The photofrapher breeds snails. THe diplomat lives in the yellow house. Milk is drunk in the middle house. The owner of the green house drinks coffee. The Norwegian's house is next to the blue one. The violinist drinks orage juice. The fox is in a house next to that of the physician. The horse is in a house next to tat of the diplomat. [Hint: Make a table where the rows represent the men and columns represent the color of their house, theirjobs, their pets, and their favorite drinks and use logical reasoning to determine the corrent entries in the table.]

Solution

Japanese own zebra, Norwegian drink mineral water.

||Norwegian|Italian|Englishman|Spaniard|Japanese|
|Color|Yellow|Blue|Red|White|Green|
|Job|Diplomat|Physician|Photographer|Violinist|Painter|
|Pet|Fox|Horse|Snail|Dog||
|Drink||Tea|Milk|Juice|Coffee|
|Position|First|Second|Third|fourth|fifth|