A discrete mathematics class contains 1 mathematics major who is a freshman, 12 mathematics majors who are sophomores, 15 computer science majors who are sophomores, 2 mathematics majors who are juniors, 2 computer science majors who are juniors, and 1 computer science major who is a senior. Express each of these statements in terms of quantifiers and then determine its truth value.

1. There is a student in the class who is a junior.
2. Every student in the class is a computer science major.
3. There is a student in the class who is neither a mathematics major nor a junior.
4. Every student in the class is either a sophomore or computer science major.
5. There is a major such that there is a student in the class in every year of study with that major.

Solution

1. $$\exist x G(x, junior)$$, true.
2. $$\forall x M(x, computer science)$$, false.
3. $$\exist x (\neg M(x, mathematics) \wedge \neg G(x, junior))$$, true.
4. $$\forall x (G(x, sophomore) \vee M(x, computer science))$$, false.
5. $$\exist y \forall z \exist x (G(x, z) \wedge M(x, y))$$, false.

+ Domain: x - All student in the class, y - [mathematics, computer science], z - [freshman, sophomore, junior, senior]
+ M(x, y): x is y major.
+ G(x, z): x is z.

+ $$\exist x (M(x, mathematics) \wedge G(x, freshman))$$
+ $$\exist x (M(x, mathematics) \wedge G(x, sophomore))$$
+ $$\exist x (M(x, computer science) \wedge G(x, sophomore))$$
+ $$\exist x (M(x, mathematics) \wedge G(x, junior))$$
+ $$\exist x (M(x, computer science) \wedge G(x, junior))$$
+ $$\exist x (M(x, computer science) \wedge G(x, junior))$$


<style type="text/css">
    ol { list-style-type: lower-alpha; }
</style>