Write each of these statements in the form "if p, then q" in English. [Hint: Refer to the list of common ways to express conditional statements provided in this section].

1. I will remember to send you the address only if you send me an e-mail message.
2. To be a citizen of this country, it is sufficient that you were born in the United States.
3. If you keep you textbook, it will be useful reference in your future courses.
4. The Red Wings will win the Stanley Cup if their goalie plays well.
5. That you get the job implies that you had the best credentials.
6. The beach erodes whenever there is a storm.
7. It is necessary to have a valid password to log on the server.
8. You will reach the summit unless you begin your climb too late.
9. You will get a free ice cream cone, provided that you are among the first 100 customers tomorrow.

Solution

1. If I will remember to send you the address, then you send me an e-mail message.
2. If you were born in the United States, then you be a citizen of this country.
3. If you keep you textbook, then it will be useful reference in your future courses.
4. if Red Wings's goaline plays well, then they will win the Stanley Cup.
5. If you get the job, then you had the best credentials.
6. If there is a strom, then the beach erodes.
7. If you log on the server, then you have a valid password.
8. If you begin your climb not too late, then you will reach the summit.
9. If you are among the first 100 customers tomorrow, then you will get a free ice cream cone.

<style type="text/css">
    ol { list-style-type: lower-alpha; }
</style>